# TS-CausalNN: Learning Temporal Causal Relations from Non-linear Non-stationary Time Series Data

## Abstract 
The growing availability and importance of time series data across various domains, including environmental science, epidemiology, and economics, has led to an increasing need for time-series causal discovery methods that can identify the intricate relationships in the non-stationary, non-linear, and often noisy real world data. However, the majority of current time series causal discovery methods assume stationarity and linear relations in data, making them infeasible for the task. Further, the recent deep learning-based methods rely on the traditional causal structure learning approaches making them computationally expensive. In this paper, we propose a Time-Series Causal Neural Network (TS-CausalNN) - a deep learning technique to discover contemporaneous and lagged causal relations simultaneously. Our proposed architecture comprises (i) convolutional blocks comprising parallel custom causal layers, (ii) acyclicity constraint, and (iii) optimization techniques using the augmented Lagrangian approach. In addition to the simple parallel design, an advantage of the proposed model is that it naturally handles the non-stationarity and non-linearity of the data. Through experiments on multiple synthetic and real world datasets, we demonstrate the empirical proficiency of our proposed approach as compared to several state-of-the-art methods. The inferred graphs for the real world dataset are in good agreement with the domain understanding.

## Code
This repository contains the code implementation of our proposed model and all the baseline models we have compared for performance evaluation. Also, the ablation study codes are available here. A summary of all directories is given below. 

- baselines: This directory contains all the notebooks with baseline models applied to different datasets.  
- datasets: Real wrold and synthetic datasets used for this paper are available in this directory. The synthetic dataset generation codes are also available here.
- proposed_model: The proposed TS-CausalNN model is available here. The notebooks in this directory contain experimental results for different datasets using the proposed mode.
- ablation_study: For the ablation study, we have created a variant of the proposed model. The implementation of this variant and results for different datasets are available in this directory.
